Goals Overview ALL

Setting goals with your manager, and ensuring they are documented via Workday Talent and Performance, helps provide direction, drive results and support feedback opportunities throughout the year. Discuss your goals regularly with your manager in 1:1s, mid-year and year-end contribution conversations, and other five C conversations.  
How it Works
·  You are expected to add and track goals in Workday Talent and Performance. One performance goal and one development item are required. It is best practice to have 3-5 performance goals.
· Performance goals: Goals you are expected to achieve within a set period of time to help drive business results. These should align to business goals and written as SMAART goals (Specific, Measurable, Achievable yet Ambitious, Relevant, Timebound).
· Development items: Goals aimed at enhancing professional skills, knowledge, and capabilities within your current role or in preparation for a future role.
· Workday does not allow cascading of goals. Managers should share team goals outside of the system to help associates determine how to align individual goals.
· Both the goal, and how you plan to get it done, are equally important. Take into consideration how you demonstrate our values and capabilities required of your role.
· Actively manage your goals throughout the year by discussing regularly with your manager and adjusting as needed.

 Learn More

Individual Goals
Work with your manager to create individual goals that align to company strategy and expectations, and help achieve your team's, and the company's goals. Enter goals in Workday, and discuss with your manager no later than March 31, or within 90 days of your start date if you are a new hire.

Setting SMAART Goals
Goal setting is the basis for the work you will do throughout the year. This document
contains questions that help you focus your thoughts to create SMAART stretch goals.
When writing your goals, consider the following:
Include both “The What” (what you will achieve) and “The How” (how you get work done
through behaviors, values and competencies) in the description of goal. Both are equally
important. For example, you might include that collaboration will be needed to achieve the
goal because others’ expertise and perspective on the solution is needed for a high-quality
outcome.
Use the SMAART criteria in the “Description” of the goal form below to be clear on
expectations:
Specific: Detail specifically what will be achieved.
Measurable: Include measurement of how you will know you achieved the goal.
Achievable yet Ambitious: Make the goal challenging while still ensuring the goal can be
completed.
Relevant: Ensure the goal is relevant to the company and the work you do.
Timebound: Include when the goal will be achieved and milestones to keep you on track
along the way. 

Specific What do you want to do or accomplish? Does your goal clearly and
specifically state what you are trying to achieve? If your goal is
particularly large or lofty, try breaking it into smaller, specific SMAART
goals.

Measurable How will you know you have met your goal? How will you (and others)
know if progress is being made in achieving your goal? Can you quantify
or put numbers to your outcomes? How will you measure it?

Achievable
yet Ambitious
What actions must you take to complete this goal? Will you require the
actions of other? Will you have access to the resources you need? What
constraints do you need to work within? Could you realistically do more
or better within these constraints?

Relevant Why is achieving this goal important to you and your job and/or
department? If you achieve this goal, what value will it add? Will this goal
accomplish a department goal or a personal development goal? Will the
outcome improve the standing of the organization?

Timebound When will you reach your goal? Is there a specific date this needs to be
completed? Is there a minimum length of time this will take to complete?
At minimum, choose a month or quarter by which to complete your goal.
Again, if your goal is particularly large, break it down into smaller
SMAART goals. 

one of the example:
Example #2: Sales/Metric Driven Goal:
Goal Title: Increase Sales to $2,000,000
Specific: Double sales to $2, 000, 000 from $1,000,000 (current sales). I will learn and apply new
sales techniques from Telling Your Story to improve my sales closure performance.
Measurable: I’ll keep a log of my current sales that directly compares to my sales at this time last
year, so I know whether I’m on track. My short-term goal is to increase sales by $250,000 each
quarter. I will utilize the Telling Your Story technique in all calls and keep a learning log of where
I used the technique well or what I did not do well after each call so I can target my approach
and use of the technique. I will discuss the results in my coaching sessions each week.
Achievable yet Ambitious: I’ve been a sales associate for two years now. I know the basics, and
I’m ready to learn and achieve more. It is realistic to make sales of $2,000, 000 in this market
and has been the norm in the past.
Relevant: This goal is directly relevant to my role and Empower’s goals of sales
achievement numbers.
Time-bound: On January 15, I completed a LinkedIn webinar course on sales tactics, and have
started implementing them and tracking in my learning log. I will complete Tell Your Story by
February 15, 2024 and I have until March 31 to see if I am tracking on the first milestone of
increased sales of $250,000 and the same measurement should be evaluated on June 30, September 30 and December 31.
